The incident took place around 16:00 Wednesday afternoon, in Kanonkop. The two ladies who reside next to each other in Springbok Street, Ms Linda Gouws and an anonymous resident, wished to alert community members of the traumatic event by sharing the following account: They both face the Stoffberg road and frequently see scholars walking home from school. The anonymous eye witness said she was alerted by the girl’s screams and rushed to her gate where she saw a metallic blue/green vehicle with two male occupants stop next to the teenage girl. The car door was open, and one of the men grabbed the girl by her shirt. She screamed at the men who froze, allowing the girl to slip from their grasp. She was carrying a technical drawing bag which she had thrown down after being grabbed. The girl ran through the precast palisades towards the gravel road on the other side of the Stoffberg road which leads to a nursery, and the men leapt into the vehicle to pursue her. The anonymous witness, who had been joined by Ms Gouws by then, screamed at the girl not to head that way, because the men had set after her. She then turned around and ran back to Springbok Street, where they lost sight of her. Ms Gouws and the other eye witness, both confirmed how the men drove down the gravel road, stopping and searching for the girl amongst the bushes.
The two ladies then picked up the girl’s bag and kept it with them. “I was hoping the girl might return to look for the bag, and kept myself busy in my front yard when I saw a car driving up and down slowly. I flagged them down, when the girl’s mom told me how grateful she is we took her bag, because it contained her personal information,” Ms Gouws explained. While they could not identify the make of the vehicle, the girl told them it was a BMW. They only managed to see that two men were in the car but could estimate them to be older than 40. • Neither eye witness took down the details of the girl or her mother, and it could not be confirmed whether a case was opened with the police. The two ladies, however, wished to alert parents of the incident out of fear that it might happen again.