Mineralia and Middelburg South have been without water for three weeks, and counting. Two homes, one for foster children and the other for severely disabled youngsters, have had to endure almost a full month without water. The industrial area is littered with dangerous potholes while water leaks in Dennesig, like Buller Street, have been spouting water without being fixed for well over a month. Beyers Naude Street and the rest of the CBD is littered with heaps of trash, solid waste workers simply leave behind on collection days. The licencing department is also not operational, with the closure being blamed on its systems being offline. The truth is that personnel is scared and intimidated by fellow employees because the deputy director of traffic services, is the one being targeted by rampaging employees. The deputy director opened assault charges against some of his colleagues during previous labour unrest at the embattled authority. And, as Middelburg has grown accustomed to over the last couple of months, the silence from both Mayor Mhlonishwa Masilela and Acting Municipal Manager Ms Thokozile Zulu, is deafening. There’s been no leadership from either as employees continue to disrupt services. Residents of OR Tambo Street have been without electricity for 24-hours and all the municipality can say in its endless SMS messages is “we apologise for the inconvenience”. The municipality has not returned any comment on www.mobserver.co.za‘s demands for answers on what management is doing to stop the ongoing chaos at the municipality. Residents are caught in the middle and are expected to foot the R1.2 billion operational fees, mostly salaries for the undisciplined employees and cowardly political and administrative management. Withholding services from ratepayers is unconstitutional. The town can no longer trust in council or municipal management to steer the municipality to calmer waters.
Another week, another strike. The unruly employees have had their three strikes, take them out!