The accused was sentenced yesterday, 13 June, after being convicted on five counts of aggravated robbery, four counts of rape and one of house breaking. The accused was sentenced following incidents which took place between 2009 and 2014 whereby Mgigi terrorized his victims especially during the night in the area of Siyabuswa. The accused raped his victims as well as robbed them of their personal belongings. The first victim was raped and robbed by the accused in 2009 and she was 32 years old at the time. The second victim, who was 25 years old, was raped and robbed by the accused in 2012. A 28 year old woman was the third victim to be raped as well as robbed by the accused in 2013. Meanwhile the fourth victim, aged 25 was also raped and robbed by the accused in 2014. The cases were opened and investigated by the Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit (FCS) at Kwamhlanga. The team worked tirelessly and arrested the accused on 07 April, 2015. He was then trialled and convicted on 03 June. In addition to the four life sentences for the four counts of rape, he was further sentenced to 15 years each for two counts of robberies with firearm and five years for house breaking. For three counts of aggravated robbery, the accused was sentenced to 15 years each. The court declared the accused to be unfit to possess a firearm and that he needs to be sent away for a very long time and as a perpetrator of Gender-Based-Violence, he needs to pay for what he did. The court also alluded that the accused raped defenceless women, one of which was pregnant during the assault. Other victims were dragged out of their residence to be raped in the bushes. Some were forced to take a bath. The court also indicated that the accused was 30 years old when he committed the crimes, citing that he was old enough to take responsibility. The Provincial Commissioner of the SAPS in Mpumalanga, Lieutenant General Semakaleng Daphney Manamela has applauded the excellent work done the team of investigators, the Prosecution team and the Judiciary which led to his incarceration. “The sentence handed down by the court will hopefully send a clear message to perpetrators of Gender-Based-Violence that the law will deal harshly with them. The sentence complements the good work by police who are striving and working hard to protect the vulnerable groups,” said the General.