A homeowner in Gholfsig is hoping that assistance from the public might help track down the two jet skis stolen from his property in Vermaas Street, early this morning during load-shedding. Mr Marius Meyer explained that the thieves gained access to his property between 02:00 and 03:00, after using a mini-substation as a stepladder over his eight foot wall. “They climbed over the wall and electricity fencing then slid down the pole that my CCTV cameras are attached to.” Mr Meyer said the thieves then made their way to the carport behind his house where the two jet skis were standing. “What baffles me is how they knew the jet skis were there. Its an eight foot wall, no one can see into our yard.” The thieves then pushed the two jet skis, which were already on trailers, out of the yard, before fleeing. His CCTV system did not work during load-shedding, but they suspect a grey Opel station wagon and a white cab-and-a-half bakkie might have been involved because they were recorded leaving the scene. “A man in the white bakkie was heard by my tenant, screaming ‘close your f*cking gate’ as he drove off.” Mr Meyer is aware of several incidents of break-ins in Gholfsig recently. He added that there was a break-in at his neighbour’s house last week as well. Members of the public are urged to contact Mr Meyer should they have any information on the whereabouts of the two jet skis. The jet skis match the following description. • A yellow and black Seadoo RXP. Registration: KDK 886 MP.
• A red, white and black Seadoo RXT. Registration: DLN 746 MP. Should anyone have any information that could assist in tracking down the jet skis, contact Marius on 079 562 7265 or Leon Grobbelaar on 060 983 3989. • Two separate incidents of attempted break-ins were reported in Kanonkop yesterday. A thief gained access to a property in Rietbok Street yesterday, by breaking off the row of bricks on top of the wall. He was seen wheeling the homeowner’s bicycle along at 06:30, before the owner’s two dogs set after him, leading him to throwing the bicycle down and fleeing. •Another incident was reported in Jasmyn Avenue at the same house, both yesterday morning and this morning, after thieves scaled the wall and broke into their garage.