It is a privilege to share our environment with a variety of wildlife, and we were always destined to coexist with them. But while it’s fun to see the hippos, they remain one of Earth’s most dangerous animals, and a local conservationist from the Mpumalanga Parks and Tourism Agency (MPTA), Ertjies Rhöm, has urged residents to maintain a safe distance. Mr Rhöm explained that it cannot be said for certain where these hippos come from, but added confidently that they will not establish themselves in our area and will likely move along on a course of their own. The three hippos were first seen in the Klein Olifants River behind Steelcrest High School when a fisherman saw a bull, cow and a calf surface from a large pool in the vicinity. Thereafter, the trail they have left moved along towards Mhluzi, where they were last seen near the filling station in Protea Street. This trail suggests that they might be making their own way towards Loskop Dam. Mr Rhöm explained that hippos are nocturnal and will mostly be seen at night when they tend to leave the water to graze. They are also a very territorial species. “These hippos are considered to be one of the most dangerous animals, and people need to leave them alone at all costs. I urge members of the public to not go looking for them, and if they are seen, leave them alone and keep a safe distance. As dangerous as they are, they will not be a threat if they are left alone by people.” He further added that the MPTA has been informed about their presence, and intend on tracking them down next week, should they need to be safely relocated. However, if these hippos are given the time to move along on their own course, the animals will be spared the trauma of capture and soon leave the area without causing any harm. Fun facts about the hippopotamus: • Barring the mosquito, the hippopotamus (as well as buffalo) is ranked as the most dangerous animal on Earth and is responsible for an estimated 3 000 human killings a year. • The hippo is considered the second-largest land mammal, and bulls can weigh anywhere from 1 500kgs to 3 500kgs. (The elephant is ranked as the largest mammal, and the hippo is in close competition with the rhinoceros for second place.) • As chunky as they are, hippos can run quite fast on land and can reach speeds between 30kms to 40kms an hour in short intervals. • Most killings can be avoided as long as people are aware of their presence and give them the respect they deserve by staying away. • A dominant bull is very protective of its herd – keep in mind that our herd has a calf. The most unfortunate position to be in is between a hippo and water. Let’s keep our hippos safe by staying safe from our hippos. • Should anyone spot the hippos, please inform Bernard van der Berg (Chairman of the Middelburg SPCA Committee) on 082 769 0227 and provide an accurate location to help keep track of their movements.