This year’s celebration coincides with the 25th anniversary of our nation’s adoption of the Constitution which prescribes an improvement in the quality of life for all citizens. It is the South African National Blood Service’s (SANBS) undertaking to play its part in delivering on this mission. Health is a basic human right. Every year, many South Africans receive a life-saving blood transfusion that is made possible by the selfless acts of our donors. A right that we all enjoy, owing to the comprehensive South African Bill of Rights preserved in our constitution. “We are driven by our heartfelt calling to save lives and ensure that every citizen has access to safe blood when they need it. SANBS supports the rights of every citizen to have access to affordable healthcare of the highest quality as is their basic human right,” said SANBS Executive: Transfusion Donor Services and Marketing, Siemi Prithvi Raj. With new changes having been made to the SANBS Covid-19 Donor Deferral Measures, donors are urged to take advantage of the eased regulations to visit their nearest donor centres and not only donate a unit of blood, but also commit to regular donation. These new deferral measures include the following: •Asymptomatic donors can donate blood, including healthcare workers. •The deferral period for direct contacts with symptoms of infection changes from 14 to seven days, from the date of complete clearance of symptoms. •The deferral period for individuals who have travelled overseas is reduced from 14 to 10 days. •Individuals with confirmed cases of Covid-19 infection will be deferred for seven days from the date of complete clearance of symptoms •Asymptomatic individuals with confirmed cases of Covid-19 infection will be deferred for seven days from the date of the positive Covid-19 test. “We encourage South Africans to give a little of their valuable time throughout Human Rights Month to donate blood and make a difference that has the potential to change the lives of so many people,” added Prithvi Raj. SANBS continues to follow the guidelines prescribed by the NICD and WHO to promote Covid-19-safe interactions at all its fixed and mobile donor sites. Visit www.sanbs.org.za or contact 0800 11 9031 to find out where you can donate blood. Follow us on Twitter (@theSANBS), Facebook (@SANBS) and Instagram (@thesanbs).