The answer was given to a question raised by Judge Mthimunye after Knoesen’s advocate, Mr Musa Mavasa, declined to cross-examine Mr Malapane on his undisputed evidence, in regards to the report he compiled on keyword searches on data supplied by investigative officer, Captain Jaco Koekemoer. Mr Malapane of Risk Diversion Digital received CD’s, memory sticks and an external hard drive to analyze forensically for specific keywords.
He was also asked to search the devices for any warning messages to Knoesen over his imminent arrest. The material contained audio, video, SMS and social media searches across WhatsApp and Telegram. Mr Malapane said he could find none and also explained why the searches and extraction of possible evidence could not be manipulated.
He said he had no reason to tamper with any evidence because he was unfamiliar with the investigation and did not know Knoesen. The state, led by Derik Rowles rested, with Mr Mavasa declining cross-examination. Judge Mthimunye, however, wanted to know more about the specific devices that were analyzed, with Mr Malapane affirming that Knoesen might have received a tipoff but not on any data he analyzed. Satisfied, Judge Mthimunye rolled the trial over to Thursday, concluding proceedings with “Mr Knoesen you remain in custody”.
Knoesen then stood up and said “thank you my Lady, you asked some very good questions my Lady”. Judge Mthimunye gave a chuckle under her breath before donning her face mask and adjourning court.
Knoesen’s remarks also solicited smiles from both the state and defence benches. Before the brisk sitting, due to correctional services’ failure to transport another state witness to court, Knoesen bonded with Advocate Mavasa over their shared love for the sport of boxing. Advocate Mavasa was watching a boxing match on his laptop ahead of the trial resuming, spurring Knoesen to reminiscent about his own boxing career up to the age of 29, as well as his boxing heroes with Mr Mavasa. The trial will continue on Thursday.