Judge Mankge explained to Mr Knoesen, who initially opted to represent himself, that it would be unfair to everyone involved, including herself and the state, if she had to delay proceedings in the month-long trial to explain legal jargon and other judicial matters to him. Judge Mankge even called on Mr Knoesen’s daughter-in-law, seated in the public gallery, to try and convince him to appoint a legal representative. She adjourned proceedings for five minutes to allow Mr Knoesen to consult with the wife of his late son, but it was the court translator who ultimately swayed Mr Knoesen to agree to legal council after assuring him that he’d still have full control over his defence. A hard of hearing Mr Knoesen repeatedly thanked a shouting Judge Mankge “for my Lady’s kindness and care”, after the court was informed of his hearing condition by state prosecutor Ms Ansie Venter in opening remarks. The trial was rolled over to Tuesday for Mr Knoesen to plead on the five charges against him, namely high treason, conspiracy and incitement to terrorism, soliciting support for terroristic acts and the unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. A decision on whether the trial would proceed would also be taken on Tuesday, hinging on the time needed for Mr Knoesen to consult with his legal representative. Judge Mankge thanked Mr Knoesen for agreeing to legal counsel, saying, “You will never regret it.” She further urged Mr Knoesen to “come to court with an open mind tomorrow”, when the state petitioned the court to transfer Mr Knoesen from solitary confinement in eMalahleni’s Paxton Correctional Services to Middelburg for the duration of the three-week-long trial. “I’m comfortable where I am, I’ve settled in and do not want to be moved,” Mr Knoesen countered. “Let’s allow each day its own troubles and address them when we get to them,” Judge Mankge urged. Mr Knoesen said, “I didn’t lock myself up and don’t want to move,” spurring Judge Mankge to note that “we’re probably going to engage in discussions over the transfer tomorrow, so please come to court with an open mind”. Mr Knoesen was also allowed to consult with his three defence witnesses outside court ahead of proceedings.A fourth witness has also been noted by Ms Venter. Ms Venter is collaborating with fellow prosecutor Derik Rowles in the trial.