That is the sentiment of an anonymous source in the private security sector who is well informed on two different scams currently making the rounds in Middelburg. Two incidents took place at the Middelburg Mall during January and February. • The source confided in www.mobserver.co.za, that on January 26, a group of card cloners scammed four people on the same day. The scam took place at the FNB ATM near Wimpy. He further said that scammers target elderly people. According to one of the victims, Ms Petro Breytenbach, one of the scammers was seen spending a while at the ATM before she approached to draw money. Due to her age, she cannot see well and a friend was assisting with the transaction. While her friend drew money, the man came towards them and grabbed the card, saying that they no longer need to insert the card and can just tap it. He tapped the card and handed it back, and after the two ladies were unsuccessful they went to a nearby shop owner for assistance. The shop owner declined to assist and they went back to the ATM, where the man returned and started meddling with their transaction. Ms Breytenbach’s card was taken. When she became aware of the theft, she immediately had her card cancelled and reported the incident to security. After reviewing surveillance footage, security set after the scammers in the parking lot, where one was apprehended while the others fled. The Middelburg Police were called to the scene and promised to visit Ms Breytenbach to have a case opened. The source divulged that despite their promise, they never went to take her statement because the man in custody had other cases against him. The suspect was later let go by the SAPS because Ms Breytenbach’s case was never opened. She still awaits their visit. • The source then informed www.mobserver.co.za of a second scam that took place on Friday, where two scammers were also apprehended and let go. Video footage allowed for clear photographs of the suspects, but the absence of a case against them does not allow them to be identified. The scammers consist of a group of two men and two women, who prey on elderly residents. They approach clients in-store while they are shopping, making offers of a discount on certain products. They lure the customer away under the pretense that they are seeking a higher ranking staff member and take the cash for the discounted purchase. The scammers then disappear. Security managed to apprehend one man and one woman involved in the scam and called the Middelburg Police. The source further divulged that the two suspects were never charged, because “the police pointed out the stupidity of victims who fall for such scams”.