Everybody involved in road running is anxious to get our sport back on the road again after an absence of more than two years due to the effect and restrictions imposed on sport and life in general as a result of Covid. The Loskop Marathon Series was set to take place on 4 June and the plan was to go ahead and organise the 32nd Loskop even if it meant a mid-winter event compared to our normal and preferred mid-autumn April date. Loskop’s race organising committee, sponsor and host Middelburg Marathon Club made a unanimous and very difficult decision not to go ahead with this year’s Loskop Marathon Series and is cancelling the event for 2022. Our sincere apologies for the disappointment this cancellation might be causing all runners and stake holders. The health and safety of all the people involved in this great race were considered, as well as the opportunity to offer the runners the best organised race before this decision was made. The Loskop Marathon Series is renowned for its total road closure, unique landscape and challenging route, superb water points, excellent general organisation and breathtakingly finish at Loskopdam. Reasons leading to the cancellation of the event: (We already had the experience of cancelling the event in similar circumstances in 2020, a mere three weeks before the event) As the Loskop Marathon Series organisers we always strive to make the Loskop a “wow-event” to all involved and the return of the Loskop to the road running scene will not deter from this unique experience. It is a humbling experience that has the full support of our sponsor, co-sponsors, service providers, volunteers and the greater Middelburg community and region in their continued participation and contributions. The 2023 Road running calendar – will show the Loskop Marathon Series scheduled for 22 April 2023. Our endeavour is to present an exceptional 2023 event and to welcome you all back at Loskop next year by hosting the: The Loskop Marathon Series thereby wants to contribute to the return of our beautiful sport of road running amongst the most popular and affordable sports in our country.