In real life, it is not much different, other than the zombies being quick thinking and ruthless criminals. Violent robber gangs have made travelling on highways to and from Middelburg after dark, a dangerous affair. A video, showing how a group of teachers were robbed, has once again highlighted just how dangerous it has become to travel at night. The incident is one of many reported, with not only spike gangs targeting vehicles along the N4, but also blue light gangs targeting vehicles on the N12. • A group of teachers were underway from Midstream to Ermelo on Friday, February 11, after an athletics event. They were forced to a halt after they encountered a flat tyre on the N4. It is suspected that the flat tyre was caused by obstacles deliberately placed on the road by a gang of robbers. Shortly after pulling off the road, and whilst the male teachers were busy changing the tyre, the group were overpowered by a gang of armed robbers demanding their valuables. One teacher’s fiancé summoned help when he happened to be on the phone with her when the robbers arrived. Although shots were fired, and a gun aimed at a male teacher’s chest misfired, no one was killed. The incident happened just after 23:00 at night, about 30km outside of eMalahleni. • In March 2021, Faith Shabangu was not so lucky. She was hit by oncoming traffic after she had to stop next to the N4 because of a flat tyre, she was confronted by robbers and fled over the highway in a panic to escape her assailants. She was travelling from eMalahleni to Columbus, where she worked, when she drove over spikes placed on the road surface. Robbers continued to help themselves to her valuables after she was hit by a Nissan bakkie. Her husband only learned of her death after he was called by her office at 06:50 to inform him that she never arrived. He then opened a missing person’s report at the Middelburg Police Station. • In October 2021, local businessman Piet du Toit and his driver Leonard Mahlangu were on their way back from OR Tambo Airport when they were pulled over by robbers dressed in police uniforms, travelling in an Audi Q7. The men were held at gunpoint on a waste dump near Carnival City where they were forced to provide their pin codes and bank cards. They managed to flee their attackers when a security bakkie arrived on the scene and the men made a run for it. • In May 2021, Gerda and Joshua (16) Toms were pulled over by a vehicle with a police siren and blue lights, also on the N12. They were returning home to Kempton Park from a fishing competition at Loskop Dam when the incident occurred. Mother and child were threatened with their lives and eventually dropped off in a field. • Solange Soares, TRAC N4 spokesperson, said that they are doing all they can to assist law enforcement with the problem. TRAC N4 has no law enforcement authority of their own and therefore cannot take law enforcement related action against perpetrators. Ms Soares said that they are offering financial rewards for information that leads to the successful conviction of those responsible, as well as meeting and developing strategies with law enforcement authorities and concerned citizen groups. She advised that motorists shouldn’t stop next to the road for any reason, and only make use of proper rest stops. She also advised motorists to travel during the day where possible, as most incidents occur at night. Ms Soares urged motorists to report anything suspicious along the route to the TRAC helpdesk by calling 0800 87 22 64 or 082 811 4444. Motorists can follow TRAC on Twitter (@TRACN4route) for regular updates of incidents on the N4.