Motorists, including truck drivers are therefore cautioned to be extra careful especially along, R548 Road, R42 Road and N12 Road near Delmas as well as on the N4 Road and Bethal Road near Middelburg where these incidents are prevalent. The warning comes after a number of truck drivers reportedly indicated that they stopped next to the road either to relieve themselves or for a feet stretch then a group of suspects would emerged from the bushes thereby pointing them with firearms. There were also incidents where hijackers would inform the truck drivers that there was something wrong with the trailers and as they stop then the suspects would pounce on them. At times the suspects would cut fuel pipes of the trucks so that the diesel is drained. In those incidents, batteries as well as cell phones would be taken from their victims. The request is that the community should be vigilant and avoid stopping next to the road for any reason especially at those areas as indicated. It is advisable to stop at a much safer place than becoming the next victim of these robbers. In the meantime, police are dealing with the situation and working hard to ensure that perpetrators are brought to book, like in the arrest of three suspects, namely Fortune Nzima aged 32, Tebogo Moshia aged 28 and Bonny Motsepe aged 28 for truck hijacking which occurred on 18 March 2022 in Middelburg. This is just one of many efforts by police to fight the scourge however the best would be to prevent such incidents from recurring if possible. In addition, police urge anyone with information that may assist in arresting suspects of these crimes to call 013-249 1600/1/2/4 or call the Crime Stop number at 08600 10111. Alternatively members of the public can send information Via MYSAPSAPP. All received information will be treated as confidential and callers may opt to remain anonymous. Meanwhile the Provincial Commissioner of the SAPS in Mpumalanga, Lieutenant General Semakaleng Daphney Manamela has reassured the public that no stone will be left unturned with regard to addressing this challenge. “We would like to encourage members of the public who have got information, video footage or details on the whereabouts of these perpetrators that are directly hurting the country’s economy by targeting trucks which transport goods via our roads. People should not be dismayed as we are turning the situation around in the affected areas” said the General.