On request of anonymity, the 27 year-old family man explains how him and his wife and baby, as well as their mother in-law and her three children, were caught unaware on Tuesday night shortly after 19:00. After his dog started barking, the man went out to investigate, when he found a man armed with a rifle at the back door. Instinctively, he started wrestling the gun from the suspect, who he had thought was acting alone at the time. The man managed to overpower his assailant, who then fled on foot leaving his rifle behind.
As the man ran into his home to alert his wife, he bumped into another suspect, armed with a knife. “The second assailant had dragged my wife to the room asking where the money is. They threatened to take my five month-old infant if she didn’t hand it over.” Upon his entry, he and the assailant locked eyes before he tried to stab the young father in the stomach. “I grabbed the blade and tried to twist it out of his grasp when he threatened that his accomplice will shoot me.” He told the assailant that his accomplice had ran off, spurring the second suspect also to flee. The mother in-law’s 12 year-old daughter was the true hero, after placing herself between the attacker and their baby. “Just after dinner, she had taken my baby into her arms before the attack had unfolded. Throughout the whole ordeal she held onto my child, blatantly refusing to hand them over. As young as she was, she was brave and risked her own life for my child’s.” The family spoke with great bewilderment about how speedily the whole community responded in their time of distress. Members of Noodgroep Radiogroep Sector 3 and 4, Middelburg CPF, reaction officers from local security companies, the SAPS and ER 24 rushed to the scene within minutes. “We just want to thank each and every last one of them for rushing to our aid. Especially Hans du Preez from Titon Security who stayed behind with me to ensure my safety after the SAPS conducted their investigation.” He also wanted to commend the Municipal Law Enforcement for conducting patrols in the area after their attack. •It was later confirmed that three suspects were involved in the attack. One armed with a panga, clothed in a dark jacket, one with a knife, clothed in an orange reflective jacket, and one with an air rifle, clothed in a blue overall. A case was opened with the SAPS, who is currently continuing their investigation.