He said he remains embarrassed by his shameful calls for violence against fellow South Africans, but that it was all done to irritate the right. He cried when he recalled an assassination attempt against him in Pretoria wherein a black couple rushed to his aid after a motorcycle incident. Knoesen again pleaded his innocence on three terrorism charges after pleading guilty to possession of an illegal firearm and ammunition at the start of the trial.
Judge Johanna Mthimunye reserved judgement on the weapons and ammunition charges until the end of the trial. Knoesen, who is representing himself, indicated that he will not be calling any witnesses. He began his defence by testifying that the prosecution and investigative officer, Captain Jaco Koekemoer, wants the court to believe that he was the fanatic leader of a terrorist movement on the verge of murdering millions of South Africans. He said that the prosecuting and investigative duo would like the court to believe that the National Christian Resistance Movement was well-organized, well-equipped and well-financed to carry out the terrorist attacks. According to Knoesen, the prosecution and Captain Koekemoer “is bargaining that the court’s mentality would believe these things,” but that it was all a farce from his side. He said that the Crusaders, a legitimate Christian resistance movement of more than 17 000 strong, should never have been dragged into the terrorism plot. According to him he joined the Crusaders as leader as early as 2012, alongside many non-white South Africans. He said he lashed out at far-right groups with racist propaganda and warnings of an imminent civil war between whites and blacks because they branded him a government agent. His propaganda campaign only intensified when right-wing movements started calling for his arrest, and a failed assassination plot against him. According to Knoesen he would never have been able to carry out the attacks on millions of black countrymen without at least 100 000 soldiers, billions in cash and general support of the white population. “It was impossible,” he said. He again questioned the court, or Judge Mthimunye’s mentality and intelligence, in believing the accusations against him, which is not under dispute. Knoesen woefully admitted to creating the racist videos calling for the extermination of blacks but said he was not serious. Later, however, he said he told no one about the farce but his brother, saying he believed that his followers were “all words and no action”. At no stage did he ever imagine that anyone would carry out his plans, even after telling his followers that he would take sole responsibility for all attacks. Knoesen expressed his regret for the arrest of Eric and Errol Abrams, two bothers already serving prison sentences for their involvement with the plot, saying that they only plead guilty to receive lesser sentences. He was left red-faced after testifying that “the dark greens” mentioned in his “propaganda videos” actually didn’t refer to blacks but “evil hearted people,” only to later concede that in another video he called for whites to take their weapons, go out, shoot as many blacks dead and bringing the numbers down”. The trial will continue on Thursday.