Around 50 municipal employees are presently disturbing the peace at the civic centre, with video footage showing them pushing against the municipality’s closed gates under watch of the SAPS. Mr Johnathan Haarhoff says he was slapped in the face by the violent employees when he attempted to leave the municipality. “I’ve been here since 12:00 and they are still refusing us a safe passage to leave the premises, the police have done nothing to protect us,” Mr Haarhoff says. He says he saw another member of the public also being assaulted by the unruly workers who have now breached municipal grounds behind the civic centre where working municipal employees park. Another member of the public told www.mobserver.co.za minutes ago that he witnessed tyres being slashed on a number of vehicles parked at the civic centre.
“Vehicle bodies are also being damaged,” he confirmed. Both men warned that the civic centre should be avoided at all costs. Meanwhile, municipal communications manager, Ms Prudence Magutle has not responded to multiple calls for updates.
Municipal employees who are not part of the unrest, meanwhile also refuse to report for work. “We are too scared, if members of the public are assaulted what do you think they do to us!?” one of the workers explained. According to a source on the ground at present, police members are talking with the strikers in order to negotiate safe passage for members of the public to leave. “The police is handling the thugs with kit gloves. It almost looks like they’re on their side and not the public being attacked,” the source says. The complainants have all been told that peace will only return when workers “receive a lot of cash”.
Management is meanwhile locked in meetings to address the escalating violence. Since the start of the labour unrest in September last year, the municipality has failed to address the ongoing strife with clear communication to the community and media. The municipality’s communication personnel simply say “we don’t know” when pushed for answers on why the authority is allowing employees to sabotage the town.