Judge Johanna Mthimunye postponed the marathon trial after both the state and Knoesen delivered closing arguments today. Knoesen had to be called to order several times again by Judge Mthimunye, who disallowed longwinded references to his failed bail application and subsequent references to criminal profilers, the FBI, CIA and even the Cold War. According to Knoesen, a criminal profiler should have been engaged early on in the investigation to “psychologically” contradict the state’s assertion that he was planning terrorist acts, recruiting members to his Crusaders cells and instigating public violence, by calls for white South Africans to kill at least 30 million Africans. He also spoke about the impossibility of these genocidal acts by erroneously saying the state alluded to him having military aircraft earlier in the trial. Military aircraft was never mentioned in the trial, though one of Knoesen’s co-accused, serving an eight-year prison sentence, did testify earlier that crop-dusters would have been used to drop “big bangs” on townships. Errol Abrams laughed spontaneously when he recalled relaying the information over the use of crop-dusters to Knoesen, who was inquiring regularly about the readiness of Crusader cells across the country. Knoesen passionately pleaded with the court to “apply logic” in the handing down of judgement and sentence, finding him completely incapable of spearheading a coup and genocide. He again said “not a single person was killed, not one bomb exploded,” despite both Judge Mthimunye and the state explaining tirelessly throughout the trial that he was not arrested for successes, but for planning, recruiting and instigating violence. The state called his actions extremely reckless, citing increased urgency of the attack plan, and intensification of his radical messages.
Knoesen countered saying that attacks like 9/11 were successful due to organisers working underground. “I was wide open, if one policeman had called and warned me, I would have stopped,” Knoesen said, relying on his old playbook that the police knew from the get-go, he was incapable of such atrocities. The state, however, had the last laugh with Ms Venter telling court that in fact, a well know policeman and family friend of Knoesen, had repeatedly asked him to stop. The court denied Knoesen an explanation leading to him sighing “I’m covered my lady, I’m done”.